# The Intimacy of a Letter, An Analysis of the Medium of James Baldwin's _My Dungeon Shook_

> I have begun this letter five times and torn it up five times. I keep seeing your face, which is also the face of your father and my brother. I have known both of you all your lives and have carried your daddy in my arms and on my shoulders, kissed him and spanked him and watched him learn to walk. I don't know if you have known anybody from that far back, if you have loved anybody that long, first as an infant, then as a child, then as a man. You gain a strange perspective on time and human pain and effort.

The most stunning thing about My Dungeon Shook is that after the first sentence, you completely forget you are reading a published, rhetorical piece. Immediately, the article tosses out the possibility of coming across as an edited, polished opinion piece or essay, and instead feels almost voyeuristic, like the reader is butting into a slice of Baldwin’s personal life.
One of the most challenging aspects in any form of writing is evoking authenticity and genuinity. Readers have an acute sense for detecting phoniness, a sense which is amplified when consuming texts of such divisive topics such as race relations. Balwin, however, completely evades any semblance of fakeness with his intimate letter format. An article addressed to the general public comes with the implication that the author does not know the personal reader, and is reaching out to them as a sort of an opinion salesman, someone whose only main goal is to sway beliefs with little concern for the individuality of the reader. But rather than speaking as a pundit, Baldwin takes on the persona of the reader’s Uncle, along with the authenticity and emotion that comes with familial relationships. The tone is not only intimate, but disarming. No attempt to argue with the reader or put down any group of people is made. It is simply a passionate letter to a family member.
Perhaps the most emotionally disarming aspect of this letter is Balwin’s urging of his nephew not to harbor any hate towards the white oppressors, and instead attempt to empathize and show compassion towards those who hate him. Overall, this letter has an air of personal warmth that could not be acquired with any other format.
