# Black Erasure and Racial Discrimination in Technology

Like most kids from Gen-Z, video games were a huge part of my childhood. When I read Narcisse’s _The Natural_, it mentioned some of my favorite childhood video games, such as the Assassin’s Creed franchise and The Last of Us. These games incorporated black characters, but as Narcisse made mention of, their natural hair was drawn almost lazily.

Back when I was into PC gaming, the rendering of real-life accurate hair was generally considered a difficult technological task, and hardware companies made a point to market technologies such as HairFX that made hair as silky smooth and lifelike as possible. The problem with this hair-rendering craze was that it completely excluded natural hairstyles, focusing largely on straight or wavy hair. It’s saddening to finally pick up on the fact that many of my childhood favorites indirectly committed black erasure.

Furthermore, this shows that black erasure isn’t just an issue of the content of video games, but is built into the medium. It’s important that as society develops technologically that we avoid embedding our biases into new innovations. One can draw a connection between the rendering of hairstyles in video games and other forms of technological racial biases. For example, if one Googles “professional hairstyle”, one will come across images of largely white models with straight hair, while if one Googles “unprofessional hairstyle”, the results are mostly black models with natural hair. I do not take these concerns lightly as a Computer Science major, especially in a time where society is becoming more and more dependent on digital algorithms.
