# Taking Another Look At My Second Entry: Inclusivity Should Not Otherize

> The majority of popular superheroes are white males, which subconsciously breeds the association between whiteness, masculinity, and bravery. Black women are extremely underrepresented in this genre, so it grabs the reader’s attention to see a black, female superhero figure.

In my second commonplace book entry, I broke down the relationship between representation in the superhero genre and race. I took notice of the fact that traditionally, superheroes have always been stereotypically masculine, white men. I made a comment about how the use depicting a woman as a superhero challenges the social expectation that women should not be powerful or stand up to authority.

I feel like I should have delved deeper into the effects of representation in the superhero genre in terms of gender. I’m not exactly super knowledgeable about superhero movies, but am in a social circle that is quite into them. A common complaint I heard around school was that diversity in superhero films felt forced. I recall a friend of mine complaining that every female superhero movie was entirely consumed with themes of female empowerment and overcoming patriarchy. She was a starch feminist, so her viewpoint may at first sound confusing, but she actually made a valid point: if a superhero is a woman, they constantly call attention to the fact that it is a woman and that this is something unusual, rather than simply that the superhero just is a woman?

She felt that constant references to the gender of a superhero reinforced the idea that female power was something abnormal, and made an interesting point: in every superhero movie about a male superhero, they don’t constantly mention their gender. The passive suggestion is that a male superhero is something typical, and that a female superhero is an oddity.

I’m not sure if I fully agree with her viewpoint, but it definitely raises a valid point: why can’t we just have a superhero that is a woman, rather than a woman superhero? Depicting female authority as equally as normal as male authority may help better shape society’s views of gender. I do fear that some may interpret this viewpoint as criticizing the increased representation in the genre. However, she was thrilled about the changes in representation, and her criticism was mainly driven out of fear making powerful women a token in the genre rather than an integral part.
