# The Shallowness of Blaming Immigrant Parents

The impossible choice my father had to make was an interesting piece that voiced the perspective of an immigrant child who illegally immigrated to the United States with her parents. The article was a response to comments made by First Lady Melania Trump, who claimed that parents of undocumented immigrants were ultimately responible for the hardships faced in immigration detention and family separation. The Trump administration’s family separation policy received intense criticism for violating the rights of immigrants and causing severe emotional distress. Blaming the parents of undocumented immigrants for this hardship is a way for the Trump administration to deny responsibility for actions commited ultimately by the federal government.

Reyna Grande, an immigrant author who faced the hardships of illegal immigration, took insult from this perspective. Grande revisits her memories as a child in Mexico, when her parents had immigrated without her to the United States to work as a result of economic devastation in Mexico. When she finally sees her father again at age 10, she begs him to take her with him across the border. She knew the trip was dangerous, but to her, it was worth it. She chose to take the risk, a decision she would never want to go back on.

Stories like those of Reyna Grande reveal the shallowness of viewpoints such as the First Lady’s. We must not condemn the parents of immigrants who were forced to make the impossible choice of leaving their children behind, or risking their safety to provide them a better future in the United States. I understand now why Grande feels that the response of the Trump administration is callous, and completely detached from reality.
