# Looking Back on My First Entry

> An important aspect of my analysis is that it helped understand the black experience from the inside perspective rather than outside. I felt a much stronger understanding of African-American culture after breaking down this passage, which made me realize how much of black culture is the result of having to cope with constant fear and degradation.

My first Commonplace Book entry was a reflection on Chapter 1 of _Between the World and Me_ by Ta-Nehisi Coates. I chose to analyze a passage in Coates’s book that really spoke to me about how a lot of black culture was simply a coping mechanism to deal with the constant fear and degradation of being black in America. This passage opened me up to the idea of using reading as a way to vicariously experience another person’s life, a way to connect not just with the facts of their life but with the feelings, sights, smells and thoughts. After reading the book, I think that it indeed one of Coates’s main intentions was to elicit such responses, to create a sense of intense personal empathy.

I noticed that this concept wasn’t unique to Between the World and Me either. Chu and Grande both used first-person narratives to shape empathy and understanding, to really put the reader in the story rather than just tell it. Grande’s vivid description of the feelings that rushed through her young mind when her father returned only to tell her that she would again have to stay behind was authentic and intense. Chu’s casual descriptions of the “gay” experiences she had on the cheerleading bus in high school and the first time she laid eyes on a “hip” femenist in college also did a great job of framing her analysis of radical feminism. Overall, I’m glad I learned how to use text as a vessel in which to experience the lives of others.
