# Reflecting on My Summer Writing

> This is a stark contrast to most of my literature assignments in high school. Most of my teachers emphasized simply two things: memorizing the material and interpreting the author’s point of view. A question on an assignment would often look like “What caused Achilles to desert the Greek army in this chapter?” or “What is Shakespeare mainly analyzing in Hamlet’s soliloquy?”.

Now that some time has passed since this course has begun, I felt like revisiting some of my earlier writings, so I’m using the next few entries to review a few old works from this class. The first assignment I did for this class was a free write about how I hope to change the way in which I engaged with text. After reading How to Mark A Book, I expressed excitement with the idea of metaphorically engaging in conversation with the author rather than a passive absorption of ideas. I definitely read far more provocative texts in this class than in high school, and it was nice to really break down a short yet insightful article.

I think the best example of a “close-read” I can recall was my reading of Chu’s _On Liking Women_, a text that analyzes the author’s trangender identity in relation to feminism. The text was initially confusing, an opinion I was not alone in. My breakout room was a bit shaky when discussing the article in class, prompting me to revisit it with a bit more depth. I started to really get into Chu’s head, and absorbed her meaning in the idea of “eating the cake and being it too”. The freedom to interpret in this class definitely helped me get more personal with text, absorbing it not for the grade but for myself.
