# Comparing Taming a Wild Tongue and Mother Tongue

These two texts analyze the concept of language, and the discrepancy between their idea of language and what society deems correct. An idea central to both texts is that there is no true “correct” way to speak, and the existence of “proper” English is just a social construct. They describe examples of being belittled as a result their accents or linguistic differences, as well explain the importance of language in maintaining their cultural identity. Tan even subtly nods to her affection for her mother’s accent by describing it as “impeccable broken English”.

_Taming a Wild Tongue_ is stylistically a more intense work. It draws on rather gruesome imagery, and describes accounts of much more violent childhood memories, which included being hit for speaking with an accent. Mother Tongue uses more mundane examples, with Tan describing how her mom had her speak on the phone to sound more professional or how a language barrier affected her performance academically. Anzaldua describes how she was forced to take a class in school which had the sole purpose of destroying her accent. Tan, on the other hand, describes being academically marginalized, stating that her accent gave teachers the false impression that English isn't her “strong suit”, and is instead deemed a “math kid”. However, through her own exploration of passion, she learned that she indeed had a talent for writing.

Overall, both are interesting pieces documenting the struggle of immigrants to maintain their national identities. The perspectives elucidated in each article have been valuable to helping me think of language in an entirely different way.
